# Matthew 4:12-25

4:12-16. Jesus shifted His base of operations back to Galilee in the north, probably because of the threat posed by Herod Antipas who incarcerated John the Baptist.

Matthew indicates that Jesus’ relocation fulfilled Is 9:1-2. This prophecy, connected with the birth of the Child in Is 9:6-7, refers not to the restoration of the tribes of Zebulun and Naphtali after the exile but to the ultimate restoration of Israel in messianic days, aspects of which were beginning during Jesus’ ministry.

4:17. Repent means “to change one’s mind (about the seriousness of one’s sins) and behavior.” It does not carry the primary sense of sorrow over sin, nor is it usually understood in the Gospels strictly as a mental adjustment. When John the Baptist preached repentance, he expected it to be accompanied by a change in behavior (Mt 3:7-10; see Lk 3:8-14).

4:18-22. It is unclear what other exposure to Jesus Peter and Andrew might have had before this call, but it is likely that there was some. Fishers of men, in contrast to their previous vocation, suggests that their role would be to help win people to the movement started by the Lord. Their response was immediate, but while Peter and Andrew left their nets, James and John left their father, implying a deeper sacrifice.

4:23-25. Matthew 4:23 has a virtual twin in Mt 9:35, with minor differences. This feature, called an inclusio, implies that Matthew intended the material between 4:23 and 9:35 to be read as a thematic whole. That primary theme is Jesus’ authority. In 4:23a, b, c, Jesus exercised His prophetic authority by His teaching and preaching.

## Psalm 64

2 Hide me from the secret plots of the wicked,
from the throng of evildoers,
3 who whet their tongues like swords,
who aim bitter words like arrows,

power