# Matthew 3

3:1-4. Matthew shifts his narrative about 30 years into the future to the start of Jesus’ ministry.

Matthew thus consistently uses the phrase kingdom of heaven, not “kingdom of God” as in the other gospels, probably because his Jewish audience might have been offended at the excessive and overly-familiar use of God’s name.

John’s blistering words for the Pharisees and Sadducees (v. 7) indicate that there was an element among those who came whose actions were hypocritical. We have Abraham for our father (v. 9) indicates that their ethnic and religious background was presumptuous and gave them false security. To be children to Abraham was wrongly restricted to Jewish people in their thinking, and would depend upon one’s repentance (a change of mind regarding one’s sins).

True repentance was to be demonstrated by the production of good fruit (v. 10), the absence of which negated the baptism and showed the repentance to be spurious. For Matthew, it is good fruit that provides the evidence that one is in right standing with God (i.e., “saved”), not the supposed presence of life without good fruit (Mt 7:16-20; 13:3-9; 18-23).

John declares that the baptism Jesus will bring will be with the Holy Spirit and fire (v. 11). Jesus is the “baptizer” and the Spirit is the element into which the believer is baptized (Mk 1:8; Lk 3:16; Jn 1:33; Ac 1:5; 11:16, and even 1Co 12:13). The Spirit does not do the baptizing. With the Holy Spirit and fire indicates that everyone will experience both aspects of this baptism, either a baptism in the Spirit that is a “refining fire” (strengthening through trials or growth in sanctification; see Zch 13:9; Rm 8:12-14; 1Pt 1:7) for those who embrace Christ, or for those who do not embrace the Messiah, a “fiery judgment” (Gn 19:24; Ps 21:9; Ezk 22:20; 2Th 1:7-8; Heb 10:27) eternal in duration.

**What do I learn about God?** 

Baptism is connected with the Holy Spirit.

**What do I learn about people?** 

**What do I learn about relating to God?** 

**What do I learn about relating to others?**

**What does God want me to understand/think?**

God is giving us a historical account of what happened when John baptized Jesus.   

**What does God want me to believe?**

**What does God want me to desire?**

**What does God want me to do?**