# James 1

1:2-3. The readers are to consider their trials with all (not some) joy. Trials are unpredictable (encounter means “fall into”) and not all the same (various). The testing of … faith is designed to reveal the quality of one’s faith and to produce stamina.

The words perfect [two times, teleios] and complete introduce the theme of maturity (see Introduction). In maturity, believers are lacking in nothing spiritually (cf. 1Co 2:15; Heb 5:14). In trials the believer often lacks wisdom, or “skill for living” (v. 5). “Wisdom” is not primarily knowledge, but godly behavior in difficult situations (cf. 3:15). The solution is to ask … God for it.

. Requests must be offered in faith without any doubting (v. 6), since in the NT doubting is usually treated as sin and that which opposes faith (cf. Mt 14:31; Rm 14:23). The imagery of the surf of the sea that is tossed by the wind depicts the instability of the immature. The man who doubts ought not to expect that he will receive anything of wisdom from the Lord (v. 7), since he is double-minded (cf. 4:8). Caught between following Christ and the world (1:27; 4:4), the doubter becomes unstable in all his ways.

1:9-11. Joy is dependent on how believers “consider” (v. 2) their circumstances. The follower of Christ who is poor (brother of humble circumstances) needs to glory or boast in his trials because God is lovingly developing his character through trials.

This is a high position. The rich man (v. 10) is to glory in his humiliation, i.e., his mortality.

The rich are no different from beautiful, but temporary, flowering grass. James probably had in mind physical death for the rich person, which might come suddenly, even in the midst of one’s pursuits. At that time, wealth is of no advantage.

1:12. Blessed means “to be richly rewarded by God” both in this world (referring esp. to the development of character through trials, 1:4) and in the next (Mt 5:11-12). The believer who perseveres under trial and is finally approved at the final evaluation before God receives the crown of life.

1:13. The phrase let no one say subtly introduces the theme of the tongue (see 3:1-12). God cannot be tempted by evil can be translated, “God must not be put to the test by evil people.” Jewish Christians would recall how Israel was judged for putting God to the test (Nm 14:22; Ps 78:18).

1:14-15. Satan tempts all believers. But each one is ultimately tempted when he is … enticed by his own lust. A temptation is not sin unless it is conceived and gives birth. That sin is accomplished means sin has become “full-grown” (NIV, ESV). Any sin by an unbeliever brings eternal death (hell). But “full-grown” sin brings early physical death (Pr 10:27; Eph 6:2-3).

1:16-17. Temptation is not from God but every perfect gift is. God is the Father or creator of lights such as the sun (Gn 1:14-16; Ps 136:7). Stars may have variation or shifting shadow, but God does not (Heb 13:8). He never solicits anyone to sin.

1:18. The most perfect of all gifts (v. 16; Rm 6:23) is new birth (He brought us forth). It begins sovereignly with the exercise of His will. As the first fruits, Christians are the initial harvest that anticipates creation’s redemption (Rm 8:20-21).

1:19-20. The maxim lists the three essential character qualities in trials and summarizes the body of the epistle (see Introduction). Quick to hear (see 1:22–2:26) counteracts sluggishness to obey God; slow to speak (see 3:1-18) corrects sins of the tongue; and slow to anger (see 4:1–5:12) evades outbursts in trials.

1:21. Verse 21 begins the body of the letter. Holiness (“righteousness,” v. 20) is developed by putting aside all … wickedness. The goal of sanctification is to save your souls (cf. 5:20), better translated “save your life (lives).”

A believer who does not act on truth is like a man who looks at his natural face in a mirror (v. 23). James has just referred to our spiritual birth (v. 18) and will allude to our new self in the “law of liberty (v. 25). So natural face, which is literally “the face of one’s birth,” corresponds to the believer’s spiritual birth. The Christian looks in the mirror of God’s Word (2Co 3:18 NASB) at his new self, transformed by new birth (v. 18). But the Christian who has gone away from the mirror (v. 24) has tragically forgotten what kind of person he is in Christ (v. 24; cf. 2Pt 1:9).

1:26-27. Pious devotion is worthless or empty if it does not curb a person’s tongue or meet practical needs.