# Matthew 1

1:1. Matthew introduced his gospel by emphasizing the legal right of Jesus of Nazareth to be the king of the Jews and of the entire world.

 1:1-17 In Christ’s humanity, He was legally a son of David and was a rightful heir to the Davidic throne (2Sm 7:12-13).

1:3-6. What is the connection between Tamar, Rahab, Ruth, and Bathsheba? Women were not usually included in Jewish genealogies (though cf. 1Ch 2). It is impossible to be certain, but perhaps the best view is that all four had unusual marriages through which God brought much good. He did the same through the unusual circumstances of the virgin birth.

1:11 Jeconiah, who was in that line, was so wicked that God cursed him, not allowing his descendants to be king (Jr 22:30). This posed a dilemma. How can both the promise and curse be fulfilled? The answer is, “Through the virgin birth.” Joseph was legally in that line through David, Solomon, and even Jeconiah. But Jesus is not a physical son of Joseph, and so dodges the curse while still fulfilling the legal requirement of being a son of David.

1:19 Joseph was ethically upright, compassionate toward the woman he intended to divorce, and was in control of his libido enough to abstain from relations until after the birth.

**What do I learn about God?** 

God keeps his promises, he promised a savor and did through Jesus Christs virgin birth.

**What do I learn about people?** 

We needed a savor, and God provided much evidence of his rightful place.

**What do I learn about relating to God?** 

Gods plan will come to pass, he has done it before with the birth of Christ and will continue to do so.

**What do I learn about relating to others?**

Joseph stood out to me on his reaction to the news. He stayed honorable and treated his future wife with respect and stayed cool under a difficult situation.

**What does God want me to understand/think?**

That he sent his son the way he said he would. 

**What does God want me to believe?**

That Jesus fulfills the requirements from the old testaments. 

**What does God want me to desire?**

Jesus Christ

**What does God want me to do?**

* Know that Christ is the savor.
* Treat my wife with respect.
* Stay cool under difficult situations, so that God can do his work.