# Matthew 2

2:2 A star could signal the birth of powerful men. In Jewish tradition a new star appeared following the birth of Abraham, and the Messiah is associated with a star (Nm 24:17; Rv 22:16).

2:15. The exact day of Herod the Great’s death is not known, but Josephus says it happened after a lunar eclipse on March 12-13, 4 BC, and before the Passover on April 11, 4 BC. Matthew’s use of Hs 11:1

Matthew’s use of Hs 11:1 (OUT OF EGYPT I CALLED MY SON) is puzzling. In its OT context, Hosea is looking backward—but not entirely. Hosea 11:9-11 contains the promise of a future restoration of the Jewish people after all their exiles. Hosea 3:4-5 indicates that Hosea knows about the future Son of David, and that He will be involved in the restoration of the nation and people.

2:16-18. Herod discovers that he was duped by the magi, and cruelly has the baby boys in Bethlehem killed. Good estimates are that about 20 children were killed two years old and under, their ages specified to provide Herod a margin of error.

2:23. He shall be called a Nazarene has no clear OT source. Nazarene apparently was a term of scorn in the first century (Jn 1:45-46; Ac 24:5), and Matthew appears to indicate that the OT prophets foretold that the Messiah would be despised (cf. Ps 22:1, 6-8, 13; 69:8, 20-21; Is 49:7; 53:2-3; and see Mt 8:20; 11:19; 15:7-8).

**What do I learn about God?** 

God hand is in all  things good and bad. He used horrible leaders to fulfill multiple prophecies. 

**What do I learn about people?** 

**What do I learn about relating to God?** 

**What do I learn about relating to others?**

**What does God want me to understand/think?**

That Jesus is the Messiah that was foretold in the old testament .

**What does God want me to believe?**

**What does God want me to desire?**

**What does God want me to do?**

