# Matthew 4:1-11

4:3-4. The first temptation may have been designed to influence Jesus to act independently of God by using His own powers to alleviate His hunger. But Jesus responded by citing Dt 8:3, which is in a context of God humbling Israel, evaluating the people’s obedience, determining if they would depend on Him, disciplining them as a father disciplines a son (Dt 8:3-5). Where Israel failed, Jesus was faithful.

4:5-7. In the second temptation, the Devil cited Scripture about God’s promises to protect His people (Ps 91:11-12). Either physically or in a vision, Jesus was taken to the temple probably because it symbolized God’s intense care for His people (Ps 18:6; 48:9; 65:4), the very point of this temptation. Jesus responded with another reference to Deuteronomy (6:16), where Moses warned the people not to test God as they had when they sought to force Him to give them water (Ex 17:1-7).

4:8-10. The third temptation may also have been a visionary experience. What the Devil offered Jesus, the Father had already promised Him, namely world dominion (Nm 24:15-19; Ps 2:7-8; Dn 7:13-14). Jesus cited Dt 6:13, a verse found in the context of warnings about idolatry on the eve of the Hebrews entering the Holy Land.

4:11. Unlike Israel in the wilderness, Jesus did not fail when He was tested. When the Devil left him, angels came to minister to [lit., “to serve”] Him—possibly indicating that they brought food since a forty-day fast would have left Him precariously weak.

**What do I learn about God?** 

**What do I learn about people?** 

**What do I learn about relating to God?** 

Jesus fought temptation with words from scripture. This shows how powerful God Word is and that we should do the same.

**What do I learn about relating to others?**

**What does God want me to understand/think?** 

Jesus was tempted just like we are and most likely more so.  Yet he fought it and remained righteous in the sight of God. Where Adam failed Jesus succeeded.  

**What does God want me to believe?**

**What does God want me to desire?**

**What does God want me to do?**

